Welcome back in in this lesson we're going to be looking at a regular expressions also known as reggae.
So that's a shorter format.
And basically what it means is that this gives us the ability to look for patterns.
Located within characters.
So let's go ahead and create a button here.
So do will do an input button type button and then on click we're going to run our function and the
function is actually going to run our regular expression.
So let's do an on click event.
And we'll just call it my fun and give it a value of click so we can close that off.
So now we can initiate a function and basically we can get that output there within that aged him out.
So let's also set up that put so that we can simply call to that to output content into their SO GET
element by ID.
And we're just going to grab it put it that way we're all ready to go.
So the next step is to create our regular expression and first of all we actually need some string value
in order to work with it so we do need a set of characters and then we can pattern match on that set
of characters using javascript.
So I got to set up a set of characters and I'm just going to create a basic default string so I'll have
a bunch of text in there.
And also I'm going to write javascript within here and then we can also have some numbers and so on
so that we have something to that we can work with.
So let's save that.
So when we click the button when we run the function called my fun then we're going to do our regular
expression and we're going to compare some of the values located within string and we're going to try
to identify a pattern.
So the pattern that we want to pull out is we want to pull out javascript out of there.
So next we need to identify a pattern so I'm going to set up a pattern within this function I'll give
a variable of P and your reg X is identified with a slash slash and then what we're looking for is within
sight of those slashes.
So we identify the reg X and if we were looking for javascript we'll pull that out and we'll place that
within the two slashes.
And next let's do our regular expression.
So we do have two options for our regular expression and we can construct it as a literal or we can
construct it as an object.
So this format here so this is the literal construction.
So basically we have our pattern and then we have some space here for attributes.
So I'm not going to add the attributes in yet and next let's do the check.
So this one will do our.
And we're going to match for the value.
So we're going to look within string so it'll look within this string and we're going to try to match
this pattern so pattern that's contained within a variable b and then what we're going to do first what
console log out are.
So see what we get back.
So let's go ahead and refresh the page open up our dev tools and then click the button and we see that
we actually get quite a bit of information here within the response.
So first of all we get zero so we get that string that we're looking for so that basically means that
it was found and if for instance it's not found.
So this is actually going to be
looking for javascript's So this particular set of characters and it is going to be case sensitive.
So now when I go back in if I refresh it we see what happens and we get return back.
No because we weren't able to find that result.
So we've got to look quite a few options within the attributes that we can do.
So if we specify within the attributes that's going to mean that it's case insensitive.
So let's refresh that and we see that now once again we're able to find that pattern.
So no longer are we looking for the case and we're essentially returning back that notch.
So what happens if there's multiple matches within a strings of javascript.
A number of times and I'm also going to change the case within here as well.
So we also have a way to do that as well.
So first of all let me save that and refresh it click it and we see that we still get that one index
being returned so we've got an index of 20.
So we know that it's within the string.
It starts at the index of 20.
And this format we can actually count the amount of characters and then we actually know where it ends
within the string.
And then we also have information within the input.
So the input essentially is the return back value of the string itself.
So if we want to return back all of the matches then we could use g.
So let's go back and refresh and click again and we see that we get null.
And that's because we removed the Keys says part.
So if we do g let's refresh it and see what happens.
And now this time we see that we got four results.
So we've got an array back and we've got four results returning back this string.
So these are the most popular types of modifiers that you're going to find added in.
And basically sometimes are called attributes or modifiers and they help you identify what you want
to return back within your match.
So there's also a really good tool online and I know initially Reg X there is it seems very confusing
because there's a lot of options to it and there really truly is a lot of options.
So there is a Web site that I'd like to recommend and it's Regg X or dot com.
And this actually gives you the ability to write Reg X. So we see that this pattern here we're matching
a to z and we're taking the whole word character and we're matching one or more so afterwards after
we've found one.
So basically we're able to return back all of these values that have started out with an uppercase letter.
So a to z we can change this to lower case and now we can see that all of the words.
So space separated that start with a lower case letters so where they start with the lower case and
we can also include the uppercase and lowercase together so that way everything gets highlighted there
and we can also be more specific so we don't have to go to a to z.
We can go A to C and I'm just going to remove the lower case one and see that these are the only two
that match that particular expression where we're looking for uppercase C uppercase a.
So any of the words that are actually matching the upper case are uppercase C are going to be returned.
We don't have to even start with a we can do C to W and we can see all of these expressions.
All of these words actually match the regular expression we can get rid of the word matching.
So this way we can look for particular letters.
So this is what we essentially did earlier.
Within this lesson where we had looking for a particular pattern.
And in this case we're matching a set of words and we can remove this as well and we can do the same
thing that we were looking for earlier.
But we don't have javascript here but I can look for a particular word and if I just do.
Gee this is going to return back that last match of the word.
So if I want to return back the different different cases of it.
So if I change this to lower case i can update this to include I.
And they need to get rid of that.
They're.
So it's not going to be just gee it's going to be also I and I don't know if they're allowing us.
So we need to ignore the case so we get those two attributes that we can add him.
So what I want you to do now is try this out for yourself.
So create a string or go over to reg X..
Dot our dot com Reg X are dot com and try it for yourself.
Try to find and pick out some of the words here located within this text and also open up your editor
and try to within that same format that I was using.
So go ahead and you can also what was included here.
You can bring back into your own editor and as well try that expression out and see what kind of patterns
you can match and which words she can pull back.
And then also try to pull out the multiple matches so try to pull back the G and then even loop through
those results that are being returned back and even I would put them within your within your console.
So go ahead and try that.
And I'm going to quickly show you because I've already got the set up how to do the loop on that and
go ahead try it for yourself.
Pause the video and then I'll show you how we can put these values that we're returning back since we've
had multiple notches.
So in order to output it.
So basically we've created an array here and we can loop through the array and I'm going to show you
another way to loop through an array.
Since that we've already looked at several different ways that we can do loops within arrays.
So there's another way to look through it where we can loop through an array by taking the array and
using for each.
And basically this allows us to execute through an array and we can set up a function here in order
to handle the returned values.
So I'm going to just use the within here.
This is where we're actually going to be looping through all of those return values.
And within here I can just simply put.
So let's go back out and refresh it and click it again and this time we see that we're able to output
all of the returned results.
So this is a quick way that you can handle and loop through all the values within the array using for
each method.
And go ahead and try that one as well.
If you haven't already.
And in the next lesson we're going to dive deeper into regular expressions and show even more you can
do with regular expressions so so coming up.